https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007885
it is commonly assumed (yet sparingly verified) that entropy estimated at specific time scales reflects 
signal irregularity at those precise time scales of brain function. 
We argue that such assumptions are not tenable. Using simulated and empirical electroencephalogram (EEG) 
data from 47 younger and 52 older adults, we indicate strong and previously underappreciated associations 
between MSE and spectral power, and highlight how these links preclude traditional interpretations of MSE time scales. 
Specifically, we show that the typical definition of temporal patterns via “similarity bounds” biases coarse MSE 
scales–that are thought to reflect slow dynamics–by high-frequency dynamics. Moreover, we demonstrate that entropy
at fine time scales–presumed to indicate fast dynamics–is highly sensitive to broadband spectral power, 
a measure dominated by low-frequency contributions. Jointly, these issues produce counterintuitive reflections 
of frequency-specific content on MSE time scales. We emphasize the resulting inferential problems in a conceptual
replication of cross-sectional age differences at rest, in which scale-specific entropy age effects could be 
explained by spectral power differences at mismatched temporal scales. Furthermore, we demonstrate how such 
problems may be alleviated, resulting in the indication of scale-specific age differences in rhythmic irregularity. 
By controlling for narrowband contributions, we indicate that spontaneous alpha rhythms during eyes open rest 
transiently reduce broadband signal irregularity. Finally, we recommend best practices that may better permit 
a valid estimation and interpretation of neural signal irregularity at time scales of interest.

EMD:
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphar.2018.01188/full
However, PE can be underestimated if the signals are superimposed with local or global trends. 
Research has suggested that properly removing the trends in biological signals with a decomposition 
approach may improve the performance of non-linear signal analysis (Lo et al., 2009; Tsai et al., 2012). 
Different variations of decompositions are suitable due to their ability to derive dynamical features 
from the signals with an enhanced resolution (Kevric and Subasi, 2017). 
One such method, empirical mode decomposition (EMD), was developed for analyzing non-stationary 
data (Huang et al., 1998). EMD can decompose a complicated signal without a basis function, 
such as sine or wavelet functions, into several intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) that are 
embedded in the original signal. The decomposition procedure is adaptive, data-driven and 
highly efficient (Kevric and Subasi, 2017). Therefore, entropy index applied in band-limited EEG 
component extracted with EMD method may optimally quantify non-linear neuronal oscillations.

EMD is a method of signal analysis (Huang et al., 1998) that has recently been applied to biological 
signals (Shalbaf et al., 2012). Using EMD, any complex signal can be decomposed into a small number 
of intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) through a sifting process. The IMFs should fulfill two requirements:
(1) The IMF is symmetric with respect to the local mean.
(2) Each IMF has the same number of zero crossings and extrema, or they differ at most by one.
The detailed algorithm has been previously described and the number of IMFs was established to be 
six (Shalbaf et al., 2012). An EEG epoch of 8 s from one participant in FC3 electrode is plotted in Figure 1A. 
The EMD of this EEG epoch is composed of six IMFs which are shown in Figure 1B. 
These IMFs are almost orthogonal components.



